Questions

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

   1."A Clockwork Orange"---string
   2.42--- Integer
   3.09/02/1945---Date
   4.98.7---Float
   5.$15.99---Float
  

2.Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.


A:  A data base would be used to store and easily change/access a large data set. A text file would be better used for JSON data.


3.Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
A: SQL is a query language, which means it does one thing: define queries and getting information from data bases.  Programming languages are general purpose languages which means they can do many things like build video games, and complex computer programs..

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A:Databases are setup like tables, using a language unreadable by humans which is used to access the data. The table has rows and columns(defining what data represents) and each cell in the table contains a particular value ( a piece of info the column name describes). Databases use SQL to obtain results from the table, make changes or add new data.


5.Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A: A Table is a framework where vertical columns define what the data represents and horizontal rows with are collections of data that go together. Each intersection of a row and column is a cell which contains a particular value. 



6.List three data types that can be used in a table.

A: string, integer, object.

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     We SELECT  two columns: date, amount
     FROM the payments table;

     We SELECT the amount column
     FROM the payments table
     WHERE the value of amount > 500;

     We SELECT ALL columns
     FROM the payments table
     WHERE the value of payee is equal to 'Mega Foods';

8.Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data:

SELECT email, sign-up date
FROM users;
WHERE user = 'DeAndre Data';


The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu':

SELECT id
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4:

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4;


